In my opinion, the first step to transition to an intermediate leader from a beginner leader is the realization that learning to lead is quite difficult and be okay with that difficulty.  

I have a theory that quite often the beginner leaders that find leading in tango super difficult to the point they feel they are bringing shame to their family names are the ones that become great leaders.  
The basis behind this theory is that these leaders are simply more aware of what's going on, so they are sensitive to every minor mistake.  
I also see naturally-confident leaders get stuck, unable to become better because they are oblivious to their weaknesses and instead, rely on their followers to compensate.  
Therefore, the next time you come close to that leader's panic, remember that it is actually a good sign.  

If I have to sum up why learning to lead as a beginner is so tortuous, it would be this one word: "multitasking". 
This is the mystery that explains why tango can be simple yet difficult at the same time.  
There are essentially four elements at play when you lead (and follow too!): yourself, your partner, music, and floor traffic.   
Understanding this, we can employ the following FDA-approved strategies to help manage these four elements:  

1) An interesting conceptual model is that leaders work to earn a currency called "trust" from followers, then leaders can spend that currency *buying* leading fancy moves or *repaying* minor mistake debts, etc.  
You don't want to run up loans and debts because some followers charge very high interest rates (they probably have mafia connections)!
It's better to save up lots of trust currency so on days where you have low credit scores, followers are still willing to work with you.   
As a serious aside. while my ego is my main drive to improve my tango off the dance floor, what inspires me to improve on the dance floor is actually the amazing but scary realization that I have collected so much trust currency   

2) You don't start a conversation with a stranger/acquintance without saying "hi" or "how are you?" first, so why rush into steps on the dance floor? Take things slow and simple so both of you understand each others' rthyme (advanced dancers would try to break in sync with you) and also, learn your follower's tendancies.  
I remember dancing with this follower for the first time where I did only weight changes in place for 20 seconds.  It felt like an eternity at the time but as a result that dance became great.  

3) I am not against a little bit of experimenting on the dance floor, but try to experiment with familiar ingredients! That means, experiement with songs you know, less crowded floor, and after you established some familiarity with that follower.  
The corollary is of course, dance simple with unfamiliar songs, crowded floor, and followers you haven't established familiarity yet. 

Not sure if you noticed a pattern here, but honestly, "dance simple" is the universal solution for managing multi-tasking in tango.  
In the near future, you will develop good habits and those good habits will allow you to free up even more brain power in order to "dance fancy".  
Trust me, the light at the end of the tunnel is closer than you think.    


Here's one secret for beginner leaders: as a "good" follower, I don't really remember what my leader led after a song.  What I remember *very well* though is how that leader made me feel.  
Even if you as a leader just walked nicely in the line of dance for the entire song, that is infinitely better than forcing techniques you don't know well and then also don't know how to recover from.  
In fact, I as a follower, don't really care if you make mistakes as long as you don't make me feel horrible (one example is when tango becomes arm wrestling, which unfortunatelly happens too often).
 

