As a tango nuevo dancer, I am used to people asking "why are you into that weird stuff?" 
I believe people write off tango nuevo because they have a pre-conceived idea of what tango is, so they go to a nuevo event and see tons of bad examples that reinforce nuevo myths.  
Below are my assessment of common nuevo myths.  Tell me in the comments section below on what you like and dislike! 

Myth #1: Tango nuevo dancers lack musicality
  My assessment: mostly false
  No nuevo teachers of mine have uttered the words "musicality is not important" (if one of yours does, you should run away immediately).
  As one teacher said "sometimes I would play a song and ask my beginner class to walk as a warm-up, and pretty soon the entire class is walking on beat almost perfectly."
  We as humans are easily influenced by music, nuevo or traditional.  
  Why do we observe worse musicality in nuevo venues compared to strictly traditional venues then? 
  Consider the following factors:
  -You are more likely to hear unfamiliar songs played at a nuevo venue; most traditional DJs will stay with the 200 most popular tango songs. 
  -Some nuevo leaders *frequently* execute dance moves they don't fully understand.  There is huge difference in "understanding the physics of a move" and "understanding the feeling of a move and how to fit and tailor that move to music", but unfortunately such difference is lost to these leaders.  
  -Nuevo-specific moves tend to demand greater balance, techniques, and desire to express from (HOLD YOUR BREATH) the follower!  
  This is why I emphasize "dance simple" throughout this website.  

Myth #2: Tango nuevo classes focus on physics of the dance instead of connection
  My assessment: mostly false
  In most tango nuevo classes, teachers spend the majority of class time talking about topics like vertical alignment, relative distance and angles, "using your whole foot", etc.  
  You can find most of those terms straight from your high school science textbooks, so itsn't it ludacrious that I am rating this one as mostly false?  
  However, I feel that many people miss the "secret agenda" behind tango teachers introducing these scientific concepts that you'd rather forget.  
  -Good vertical alignment reduce "noise" and allow dancer partners to have better connection to each others' spines.  
  -Understanding relative distance and angles teach dancers the trade-off between mobility and "upload/download speed" (quite literally connection quality here)
  -"Using your whole foot" is a technique to stay connected to the floor for as long as possible.     
  As shown above, these concepts are introduced to make connection easier, although I definitely see nuevo dancers unable to see past pure physics, and I pray for those dancers ...   

Myth #3: You need more space to dance tango nuevo
  My assessment: somewhat true
  The obvious points are that nuevo tango is often danced in open embrace with bigger movements and longer steps. 
  A more accurate statement is that there is something about *some* nuevo music and less crowded milongas that inspires creativity and "messing around"(READ: freedom of expression).
  It's also possible to dance nuevo in more crowded space (exchanging lead & follow mid-songs and the "typewriter shuffle steps" come to mind) but it is more advanced.  

Myth #4: Tango nuevo has a different feeling than traditional tango
  My assessment: mostly true
  *DISCLAIMER* I will say that my assessment here is possibly the result of my still relatively-young tango life and I might change my mind about this in the future.  
  The movements of traditional and nuevo tango are more similiar than they are different, so the deciding factor here is the musical differences.   
  Personally I find the feeling of dancing tango nuevo to be closer to dancing to slow milonga songs.
  Traditional tango songs motivate me to be "good-behaving" and not make mistakes.
  Nuevo songs inspire me to be "free" and turn mistakes into physical jokes (READ: magical moments).  
  However, I would like to note that there are dancers that don't see signficant difference in feeling between traditional and nuevo.  

Myth #5: Tango nuevo is about flashy moves
  My assessment: mostly false  
  In fact, I would argue that traditional tango, with its "gliding on ice" characteristic, is not less flashy than the big movements in nuevo. 
  Dancing flashy is more of a by-product of doing what feels right at the moment.  
  As mentioned above, nuevo music and less crowded milonga naturally inspire creativity and "messing around", so naturally it feels right to do big movements.  
  On the other hand, traditional tango songs are good at bringing out bottled-up emotions (similar to drugs really), so naturally it feels right to express that emotional energy with close embrace and certain steps.      
  I will note here that some nuevo teachers do unfortunately have to teach fancy moves in order to attract a larger student crowd.  