

  
One of my most memorable amazing dances of all time happened with a day-1 follower (to be fair though, she has extensive background in another dance).  
During a guided practica, I danced with her in close embrace (already a rare feat for day-1 follower, but this also speaks very highly of how good the tango teacher of day is).
It was going well, yet at one point, she let out a very audible sigh.  I paused and broke away, wanting to ask her what was wrong.  "What's wrong?", she beat me to the punch.
"Oh I heard you sighing, so I want to check if everything is okay", I replied.  "No no no it was amazing! It was a sigh of pleasure!" 
There is a word that describe this, but since you're already thinking it, I am not going to spell it out.  

I often think about what makes that dance great.  I mean, she couldn't do any ocho! I only had a 25% rate of success in tricking her to do a proper giro/molinete.
I did come up with the below list:

1) She had impeccable balance.  Even in closer embrace, she was not relying on me for support.  
2) As the dance went on, I gradually gained her trust and she relaxed more and more, and then it's as if she understood my lead better, moved smoother, and heard the music the same way I heard it.
3) Unlike many beginner followers, she didn't *work too hard* and rush her steps.     

Many times I've seen leaders giving technical lectures to beginner followers during milongas (70% of the time it's about teaching followers how to walk into the cross).  
Obviously this behavior is not encouraged, but the part that really irks me is that these beginner followers *always* become worse followers immediately after those lectures.  
For one, I for sure will become a worse follower if I have to concentrate on "is my leader walking outside of me to the right?" during dancing. 
For two, I as a follower learn by recognizing the feeling of tango movements, not really by technical verbal descriptions.   

When beginner followers verbally agree to accept my feedback, I find it *always* better to guide them towards improved balance, greater relaxation, and more patience. 
When they have those two traits, sometimes they can even figure out how to correctly do a move that they had not learned before.
Of course, me being the weirdo that I am, I would say "hey you're doing great! I do have one weird suggestion though", then:

1) If that follower has poor balance in open embrace (usually due to poor postures), I would say "if possible, pretend I am not really here.  Imagine I am a ghost and you're trying to mirror my movements on your own."
2) If that follower is tense and/or move erratically, I would say "hey, I want you to meet my right earlobe. That's my favorite earlobe.  Try only looking at my right earlobe and stay in front of it.  " 
3) If that follower is rushing and/or anticipating my lead, I would say "would it be possible for you to be a lazier dancer? Try work a lot less, maybe imagine yourself as a sloth?  " 

These ridiculous suggestions are round-about ways to unload my followers' brains and guide them towards improved balance and greater relaxation. 
Now that you know my secrets, you might be pleased to know that, improved balance by engaging your core muscles is actually what allows those fast, flashy moves to happen; 
greater relaxation is a technique that one very advanced follower used on me to unshackle my creative side as a lead; patience makes your dance more smooth and graceful.  Yeah, these three traits might just serve you for years to come.  

At this point, I might as well let you in on more secrets.  There are many reasons I would choose to dance with a beginner follower:
I very much enjoy dancing with beginner followers. 
1) I, as a leader, will have off-days; I feel embarassed to lead intermediate/advanced followers on my off-days, but I still want to dance.  
2) Leading a beginner follower forces me to focus on musicality.  
3) Since it is harder to lead a move correctly with a beginner follower, when it works, it is *much* more satisfying for both me and my follower.   
